docs/pages/live_n2c_data.mdx, before:

# Live Data from Cardano Node through N2C

Ledger Sync main application can be configured to read live data from a Cardano node through the Node-to-Client (N2C) connection.
This feature allows storing the current data directly from the Cardano node in the Ledger Sync database.

The live data from the Cardano Node are stored in separate tables prefixed with `local_`.

This support is only enabled if N2C settings are configured in the `application.properties` file or `.env` file (for Docker Compose setup).
To configure N2C settings, you can refer to [N2C configuration section](docker#configuring-n2c-node-to-client---optional)

## Live or Local Tables

The live data from the Cardano Node are stored in separate tables prefixed with `local_`. The live data are stored with the current epoch
number, so if the data is available for a previous epoch, it can be retrieved from the database.

Currently, the following tables are supported to store live data from the Cardano Node:

| Table Name                     | Description                                                                 |
|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `local_epoch_param`            | Stores the current epoch parameters fetched from the Cardano node.         |
| `local_constitution`           | Stores the current constitution fetched from the Cardano node.             |
| `local_committee`              | Stores the current committee fetched from the Cardano node.                |
| `local_committee_member`       | Stores the current committee members fetched from the Cardano node.        |
| `local_drep_dist`              | Stores the current DRep stake distribution fetched from the Cardano node.        |
| `local_gov_action_proposal_status` | Stores the current governance action proposal status fetched from the Cardano node. |
| `local_hard_fork_initiation`   | Stores the current hard fork initiation fetched from the Cardano node.     |
| `local_treasury_withdrawal`    | Stores the current treasury withdrawal fetched from the Cardano node.      |

Commit message:

Update descriptions for hard fork and treasury withdrawals fields

docs/pages/live_n2c_data.mdx, after:

# Live Data from Cardano Node through N2C

Ledger Sync main application can be configured to read live data from a Cardano node through the Node-to-Client (N2C) connection.
This feature allows storing the current data directly from the Cardano node in the Ledger Sync database.

The live data from the Cardano Node are stored in separate tables prefixed with `local_`.

This support is only enabled if N2C settings are configured in the `application.properties` file or `.env` file (for Docker Compose setup).
To configure N2C settings, you can refer to [N2C configuration section](docker#configuring-n2c-node-to-client---optional)

## Live or Local Tables

The live data from the Cardano Node are stored in separate tables prefixed with `local_`. The live data are stored with the current epoch
number, so if the data is available for a previous epoch, it can be retrieved from the database.

Currently, the following tables are supported to store live data from the Cardano Node:

| Table Name                     | Description                                                                 |
|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `local_epoch_param`            | Stores the current epoch parameters fetched from the Cardano node.         |
| `local_constitution`           | Stores the current constitution fetched from the Cardano node.             |
| `local_committee`              | Stores the current committee fetched from the Cardano node.                |
| `local_committee_member`       | Stores the current committee members fetched from the Cardano node.        |
| `local_drep_dist`              | Stores the current DRep stake distribution fetched from the Cardano node.        |
| `local_gov_action_proposal_status` | Stores the current governance action proposal status fetched from the Cardano node. |
| `local_hard_fork_initiation`   | Stores the most recently enacted hard fork initiation fetched from the Cardano node.     |
| `local_treasury_withdrawal`    |Stores the most recently enacted treasury withdrawals fetched from the Cardano node.|
