docs/migration-schema.md, before:

# Research LedgerSync and YaciStore

## I.Needed LedgerSync tables using by explorer

| Table                   | Note |
| ----------------------- | ---- |
| ada_pots                |      |
| address                 |      |
| address_token           |      |
| address_token_balance   |      |
| address_tx_balance      |      |
| assert_metadata         |      |
| block                   |      |
| cost_model              |      |
| datum                   |      |
| delegation              |      |
| epoch                   |      |
| epoch_param             |      |
| epoch_stake             |      |
| epoch_stake_checkpoint  |      |
| failed_tx_out           |      |
| ma_tx_mint              |      |
| ma_tx_out               |      |
| multi_asset             |      |
| param_proposal          |      |
| pool_hash               |      |
| pool_history            |      |
| pool_history_checkpoint |      |
| pool_info               |      |
| pool_info_checkpoint    |      |
| pool_metadata_ref       |      |
| pool_offline_data       |      |
| pool_owner              |      |
| pool_relay              |      |
| pool_retire             |      |
| pool_update             |      |
| redeemer                |      |
| redeemer_data           |      |
| reference_tx_in         |      |
| reserve                 |      |
| reward                  |      |
| reward_checkpoint       |      |
| script                  |      |
| slot_leader             |      |
| stake_address           |      |
| stake_deregistration    |      |
| stake_registration      |      |
| stake_tx_balance        |      |
| treasury                |      |
| tx                      |      |
| tx_bootstrap_witnesses  |      |
| tx_chart                |      |
| tx_metadata             |      |
| tx_metadata_hash        |      |
| tx_out                  |      |
| tx_witnesses            |      |
| unconsume_tx_in         |      |
| withdrawal              |      |

## II.List table use in ledger sync but not in yaci store

| Table                    | Note              |
| ------------------------ | ----------------- |
| ada_pots                 | related to reward |
| address                  |                   |
| address_token            |                   |
| address_token_balance    |                   |
| address_tx_balance       |                   |
| agg_address_token        |                   |
| agg_address_tx_balance   |                   |
| asset_metadata           |                   |
| delisted_pool            |                   |
| epoch_stake              | related to reward |
| epoch_sync_time          |                   |
| extra_key_witness        |                   |
| failed_tx_out            |                   |
| ma_tx_mint               |                   |
| ma_tx_out                |                   |
| meta                     |                   |
| multi_asset              |                   |
| param_proposal           |                   |
| pool_hash                |                   |
| pool_meta_ref            |                   |
| pool_offline_data        |                   |
| pool_offline_fetch_error |                   |
| pool_owner               |                   |
| pool_replay              |                   |
| pool_retire              |                   |
| pool_update              |                   |
| pot_transfer             |                   |
| redeemer                 |                   |
| redeemer_data            |                   |
| reference_tx_in          |                   |
| reserve                  |                   |
| reserved_pool_ticker     |                   |
| reward                   | related to reward |
| rollback_history         |                   |
| slot_leader              |                   |
| stake_address            |                   |
| stake_deregistration     |                   |
| treasury                 |                   |
| unconsume_tx_in          |                   |
| withdrawal               |                   |

## III.List table use in ledger sync maybe in yaci store

1. Analyze cost_model table (Can replaced with cost_model in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | costs          | costs         |
        | hash           | hash          |
    - References tables: `param_proposal`, `epoch_param`
    - Query used in explorer:
        |          | Table related | Note |
        | -------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findAll  |               |      |
        | findById |               |      |

    💡Solution: Change `findById` to `findByHash`, and relation by hash rather `id`
        
2. Analyze datum table (Need to find a column to replace the column `values`)
    - Compare columns with yaci store:  
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | bytes          | datum         |
        | hash           | hash          |
        | values         | N/A           |
    - References tables: 
    - Query used in explorer:
        |                             | Table related                                                                                                                                                                                            | Note                             |
        | --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
        | getReferenceInputByTx       | - reference_tx_in<br> - tx_out<br> - tx<br> - script<br> - `datum`<br> - ma_tx_out<br> - multi_asset                                                                                                     | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |
        | findContractByTx            | - redeemer<br> - tx<br> - redeemer_data<br> - tx_in<br> - tx_out<br> - `datum`<br> - script<br> - withdrawal<br> - delegation<br> - stake_deregistration<br> - stake_address<br> - tx                    | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |
        | findContractByTxFail        | - redeemer<br> - tx<br> - redeemer_data<br> - tx<br> - unconsume_tx_in<br> - tx_out<br> - `datum`<br> - script<br> - withdrawal<br> - delegation<br> - stake_deregistration<br> - stake_address<br> - tx |                                  |
        | getContractDatumOutByTx     | - tx_out<br> - `datum`                                                                                                                                                                                   | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |
        | getContractDatumOutByTx     | - tx_out<br> - `datum`                                                                                                                                                                                   | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |
        | getContractDatumOutByTxFail | - failed_tx_out<br> - `datum`                                                                                                                                                                            | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |

    💡Note: The `values` column is not currently in use.

3. Analyze delegation table(Need to find a column to replace the column `redeemer_id`)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB  | Yaci_Store DB |
        | --------------- | ------------- |
        | active_epoch_no | epoch         |
        | cert_index      | cert_index    |
        | slot_no         | slot          |
        | addr_id         | address       |
        | pool_hash_id    | pool_id       |
        | tx_id           | tx_hash       |
        | redeemer_id     | N/A           |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |     | Table related | Note |
        | --- | ------------- | ---- |
4. Analyze epoch table (Can replaced with cost_model in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB      | Yaci_Store DB     |
        | ------------------- | ----------------- |
        | blk_count           | block_count       |
        | end_time            | end_time          |
        | fees                | total_fees        |
        | max_slot            | max_slot          |
        | no                  | number            |
        | out_sum             | total_output      |
        | start_time          | start_time        |
        | tx_count            | transaction_count |
        | era                 | N/A               |
        | rewards_distributed | N/A               |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |     | Table related | Note |
        | --- | ------------- | ---- |
5.  Analyze epoch_param table (Doing…)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        |                |               |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |                                   | Table related | Note |
        | --------------------------------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findEpochParamByEpochNo(:epochNo) |               |      |
        | findEpochParamInTime              |               |      |
6. Analyze script table (Todo…)
    - Compare columns with yaci store:
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        |                |               |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |                            | Table related | Note |
        | -------------------------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findByHash(:hash)          |               |      |
        | findAllByHashIn(:hashList) |               |      |
7. Analyze stake_registration table (Can replaced with stake_registration in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | cert_index     | cert_index    |
        | epoch_no       | epoch         |
        | address_id     | address       |
        | tx_id          | tx_hash       |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |                                   | Table related | Note |
        | --------------------------------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findMaxTxIdByStake(:stakeAddress) |               |      |
8. Analyze stake_deregistration table (Can replaced with stake_registration in yaci_store DB, if find column that replaced for redeemer_id )
    - Compare columns with yaci store:
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | cert_index     | cert_index    |
        | epoch_no       | epoch         |
        | address_id     | address       |
        | tx_id          | tx_hash       |
        | redeemer_id    | N/A           |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |                                   | Table related | Note |
        | --------------------------------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findMaxTxIdByStake(:stakeAddress) |               |      |
9. Analyze tx_metadata table (Can replaced with transaction_metadata in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store:
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | bytes          | cbor          |
        | json           | body          |
        | key            | lablel        |
        | tx_id          | tx_hash       |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
10. Analyze tx_bootstrap_witnesses table (Can replaced with transaction_witness in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store:
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB   |
        | -------------- | --------------- |
        | tx_id          | tx_hash         |
        | public_key     | pub_key         |
        | signature      | signature       |
        | chain_code     | additional_data |
        | attributes     | additional_data |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |     | Table related | Note |
        | --- | ------------- | ---- |

Commit message:

chore: add query used in explorer of delegation table

docs/migration-schema.md, after:

# Research LedgerSync and YaciStore

## I.Needed LedgerSync tables using by explorer

| Table                   | Note |
| ----------------------- | ---- |
| ada_pots                |      |
| address                 |      |
| address_token           |      |
| address_token_balance   |      |
| address_tx_balance      |      |
| assert_metadata         |      |
| block                   |      |
| cost_model              |      |
| datum                   |      |
| delegation              |      |
| epoch                   |      |
| epoch_param             |      |
| epoch_stake             |      |
| epoch_stake_checkpoint  |      |
| failed_tx_out           |      |
| ma_tx_mint              |      |
| ma_tx_out               |      |
| multi_asset             |      |
| param_proposal          |      |
| pool_hash               |      |
| pool_history            |      |
| pool_history_checkpoint |      |
| pool_info               |      |
| pool_info_checkpoint    |      |
| pool_metadata_ref       |      |
| pool_offline_data       |      |
| pool_owner              |      |
| pool_relay              |      |
| pool_retire             |      |
| pool_update             |      |
| redeemer                |      |
| redeemer_data           |      |
| reference_tx_in         |      |
| reserve                 |      |
| reward                  |      |
| reward_checkpoint       |      |
| script                  |      |
| slot_leader             |      |
| stake_address           |      |
| stake_deregistration    |      |
| stake_registration      |      |
| stake_tx_balance        |      |
| treasury                |      |
| tx                      |      |
| tx_bootstrap_witnesses  |      |
| tx_chart                |      |
| tx_metadata             |      |
| tx_metadata_hash        |      |
| tx_out                  |      |
| tx_witnesses            |      |
| unconsume_tx_in         |      |
| withdrawal              |      |

## II.List table use in ledger sync but not in yaci store

| Table                    | Note              |
| ------------------------ | ----------------- |
| ada_pots                 | related to reward |
| address                  |                   |
| address_token            |                   |
| address_token_balance    |                   |
| address_tx_balance       |                   |
| agg_address_token        |                   |
| agg_address_tx_balance   |                   |
| asset_metadata           |                   |
| delisted_pool            |                   |
| epoch_stake              | related to reward |
| epoch_sync_time          |                   |
| extra_key_witness        |                   |
| failed_tx_out            |                   |
| ma_tx_mint               |                   |
| ma_tx_out                |                   |
| meta                     |                   |
| multi_asset              |                   |
| param_proposal           |                   |
| pool_hash                |                   |
| pool_meta_ref            |                   |
| pool_offline_data        |                   |
| pool_offline_fetch_error |                   |
| pool_owner               |                   |
| pool_replay              |                   |
| pool_retire              |                   |
| pool_update              |                   |
| pot_transfer             |                   |
| redeemer                 |                   |
| redeemer_data            |                   |
| reference_tx_in          |                   |
| reserve                  |                   |
| reserved_pool_ticker     |                   |
| reward                   | related to reward |
| rollback_history         |                   |
| slot_leader              |                   |
| stake_address            |                   |
| stake_deregistration     |                   |
| treasury                 |                   |
| unconsume_tx_in          |                   |
| withdrawal               |                   |

## III.List table use in ledger sync maybe in yaci store

1. Analyze cost_model table (Can replaced with cost_model table in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | costs          | costs         |
        | hash           | hash          |
    - References tables: `param_proposal`, `epoch_param`
    - Query used in explorer:
        |          | Table related | Note |
        | -------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findAll  |               |      |
        | findById |               |      |

    💡Solution: Change `findById` to `findByHash`, and relation by hash rather `id`
        
2. Analyze datum table (Can replaced with datum table in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store:  
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | bytes          | datum         |
        | hash           | hash          |
        | values         | N/A           |
    - References tables: 
    - Query used in explorer:
        |                             | Table related                                                                                                                                                                                            | Note                             |
        | --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
        | getReferenceInputByTx       | - reference_tx_in<br> - tx_out<br> - tx<br> - script<br> - `datum`<br> - ma_tx_out<br> - multi_asset                                                                                                     | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |
        | findContractByTx            | - redeemer<br> - tx<br> - redeemer_data<br> - tx_in<br> - tx_out<br> - `datum`<br> - script<br> - withdrawal<br> - delegation<br> - stake_deregistration<br> - stake_address<br> - tx                    | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |
        | findContractByTxFail        | - redeemer<br> - tx<br> - redeemer_data<br> - tx<br> - unconsume_tx_in<br> - tx_out<br> - `datum`<br> - script<br> - withdrawal<br> - delegation<br> - stake_deregistration<br> - stake_address<br> - tx |                                  |
        | getContractDatumOutByTx     | - tx_out<br> - `datum`                                                                                                                                                                                   | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |
        | getContractDatumOutByTx     | - tx_out<br> - `datum`                                                                                                                                                                                   | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |
        | getContractDatumOutByTxFail | - failed_tx_out<br> - `datum`                                                                                                                                                                            | using datum.hash and datum.bytes |

    💡Note: The `values` column is not currently in use.

3. Analyze delegation table(Need to find a column to replace the column `redeemer_id`)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB  | Yaci_Store DB |
        | --------------- | ------------- |
        | active_epoch_no | epoch         |
        | cert_index      | cert_index    |
        | slot_no         | slot          |
        | addr_id         | address       |
        | pool_hash_id    | pool_id       |
        | tx_id           | tx_hash       |
        | redeemer_id     | N/A           |
    - References tables: 
    - Query used in explorer:
        |                                | Table related                                                                                            | Note |
        | ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- |
        | findDelegationByAddressAndTxIn | - `delegation`<br> - tx                                                                                    |      |
        | findDelegationByAddress        | - `delegation`<br> - tx<br> - block<br> - stake_address<br> - pool_hash<br> - pool_offline_data            |      |
        | findDelegationByAddress        | - `delegation`<br> - tx<br> - block<br> - pool_offline_data                                                |      |
        | findDelegationByAddressAndTx   | - `delegation`<br> - tx<br> - block<br> - pool_hash<br> - pool_offline_data                                |      |
        | findPoolDataByAddress          | - `delegation`<br> - pool_hash<br> - pool_offline_data<br> - stake_registration<br> - stake_deregistration |      |
        | findPoolDataByAddressIn        | - `delegation`<br> - stake_address<br> - pool_hash<br> - pool_offline_data                                 |      |
        | liveDelegatorsList             | - `delegation`<br> - pool_hash<br> - tx<br> - stake_deregistration                                         |      |
        | findDelegationByTxIdIn         | - `delegation`<br> - stake_address<br> - pool_hash<br> - pool_offline_data                                 |      |

    💡Note: The `redeemer_id` column is not currently in use.

4. Analyze epoch table (Can replaced with cost_model in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB      | Yaci_Store DB     |
        | ------------------- | ----------------- |
        | blk_count           | block_count       |
        | end_time            | end_time          |
        | fees                | total_fees        |
        | max_slot            | max_slot          |
        | no                  | number            |
        | out_sum             | total_output      |
        | start_time          | start_time        |
        | tx_count            | transaction_count |
        | era                 | N/A               |
        | rewards_distributed | N/A               |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |     | Table related | Note |
        | --- | ------------- | ---- |
5.  Analyze epoch_param table (Doing…)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        |                |               |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |                                   | Table related | Note |
        | --------------------------------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findEpochParamByEpochNo(:epochNo) |               |      |
        | findEpochParamInTime              |               |      |
6. Analyze script table (Todo…)
    - Compare columns with yaci store:
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        |                |               |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |                            | Table related | Note |
        | -------------------------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findByHash(:hash)          |               |      |
        | findAllByHashIn(:hashList) |               |      |
7. Analyze stake_registration table (Can replaced with stake_registration in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store: 
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | cert_index     | cert_index    |
        | epoch_no       | epoch         |
        | address_id     | address       |
        | tx_id          | tx_hash       |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |                                   | Table related | Note |
        | --------------------------------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findMaxTxIdByStake(:stakeAddress) |               |      |
8. Analyze stake_deregistration table (Can replaced with stake_registration in yaci_store DB, if find column that replaced for redeemer_id )
    - Compare columns with yaci store:
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | cert_index     | cert_index    |
        | epoch_no       | epoch         |
        | address_id     | address       |
        | tx_id          | tx_hash       |
        | redeemer_id    | N/A           |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |                                   | Table related | Note |
        | --------------------------------- | ------------- | ---- |
        | findMaxTxIdByStake(:stakeAddress) |               |      |
9. Analyze tx_metadata table (Can replaced with transaction_metadata in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store:
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB |
        | -------------- | ------------- |
        | bytes          | cbor          |
        | json           | body          |
        | key            | lablel        |
        | tx_id          | tx_hash       |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
10. Analyze tx_bootstrap_witnesses table (Can replaced with transaction_witness in yaci_store DB)
    - Compare columns with yaci store:
        | Ledger_Sync DB | Yaci_Store DB   |
        | -------------- | --------------- |
        | tx_id          | tx_hash         |
        | public_key     | pub_key         |
        | signature      | signature       |
        | chain_code     | additional_data |
        | attributes     | additional_data |
    - References tables: 
    - Query use in explorer:
        |     | Table related | Note |
        | --- | ------------- | ---- |
